Add new s3 sink documentation for Data Prepper 2.8 (#7163)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3.md

}
```

## Cross-account S3 access<a name="s3_bucket_ownership"></a>

> When Data Prepper fetches data from an S3 bucket, it verifies the ownership of the bucket using the [bucket owner condition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/bucket-owner-condition.html). By default, the S3 sink does not require `bucket_owners`. If `bucket_owners` is configured and a bucket is not included in one of these mapped configurations, the `default_bucket_owner` defaults to the account id from the `aws.sts_role_arn`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Data Prepper fetches data from an S3 bucket, it verifies bucket ownership using [bucket owner condition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/bucket-owner-condition.html). 

By default, the S3 sink does not require `bucket_owners`. If `bucket_owners` is configured and a bucket is not included in one of these mapped configurations, `default_bucket_owner` defaults to the account id from `aws.sts_role_arn`. 
```

}
```

## Cross-account S3 access<a name="s3_bucket_ownership"></a>

When Data Prepper fetches data from an S3 bucket, it verifies bucket ownership using [bucket owner condition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/bucket-owner-condition.html). 

By default, the S3 sink does not require `bucket_owners`. If `bucket_owners` is configured and a bucket is not included in one of these mapped configurations, `default_bucket_owner` defaults to the account id from `aws.sts_role_arn`. 

When ingesting data from multiple S3 buckets with different account associations, configure Data Prepper for cross-account S3 access based on the following conditions:

- For S3 buckets under the same account, set `default_bucket_owner` to that account's ID.
- For S3 buckets across multiple accounts, use a `bucket_owners` map.

The `bucket_owners` map specifies account IDs for buckets across accounts, for example, `my-bucket-01` owned by `123456789012` and `my-bucket-02` owned by `999999999999`, as shown in the following configuration:

```
sink:
  - s3:
      default_bucket_owner: 111111111111
      bucket_owners:
        my-bucket-01: 123456789012
        my-bucket-02: 999999999999
```

> Both `bucket_owners` and `default_bucket_owner` can be used together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`bucket_owners` and `default_bucket_owner` can be used together.
```

    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Cross-account S3 access<a name="s3_bucket_ownership"></a>

When Data Prepper fetches data from an S3 bucket, it verifies bucket ownership using [bucket owner condition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/bucket-owner-condition.html). 

> By default, the S3 sink does not require `bucket_owners`. If `bucket_owners` is configured and a bucket is not included in one of the mapped configurations, `default_bucket_owner` defaults to the account ID in `aws.sts_role_arn`. `bucket_owners` and `default_bucket_owner` can be used together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the S3 sink does not require `bucket_owners`. If `bucket_owners` is configured and a bucket is not included in one of the mapped configurations, `default_bucket_owner` defaults to the account ID in `aws.sts_role_arn`. You can configure both `bucket_owners` and `default_bucket_owner` and apply the settings together.
```

`aggregate_threshold` | No       | [Aggregate threshold](#threshold-configuration) | A condition for flushing objects with a dynamic `path_prefix`. 
`object_key` | No       | [Object key](#object-key-configuration)         | Sets `path_prefix` and `file_pattern` for object storage. The file pattern is `events-%{yyyy-MM-dd'T'hh-mm-ss}`. By default, these objects are found in the bucket's root directory. `path_prefix` is configurable.
`compression` | No       | String                                          | The compression algorithm: Either `none`, `gzip`, or `snappy`. Default is `none`. 
`buffer_type` | No       | [Buffer type](#buffer-type)                     | The buffer type configuration. 
`max_retries` | No       | Integer                                         | The maximum number of retries for S3 ingestion requests. Default is `5`.

## `aws`

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`region` | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).

> `sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which uses [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which uses [standard SDK behavior for the credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).
```

## Threshold configuration

Use the following options to set ingestion thresholds for the `s3` sink. Data Prepper writes events to an S3 object when any of these conditions occur.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`event_count` | Yes | Integer | The number of Data Prepper events to accumulate before writing an object to S3.
`maximum_size` | No | String | The maximum number of bytes to accumulate before writing an object to S3. Default is `50mb`.
`event_collect_timeout` | Yes | String | The maximum amount of timeout before Data Prepper writes an event to S3. The value should be either an ISO-8601 duration, such as `PT2M30S`, or a simple notation, such as `60s` or `1500ms`.

## Aggregate threshold configuration

Use the following options to set rules or limits that trigger certain actions or behavior when an aggregated value crosses a defined threshold.

Option | Required                           | Type   | Description
:--- |:-----------------------------------|:-------| :---

> `flush_capacity_ratio` | No                                 | Float  | The percentage of groups to be force-flushed when `aggregate_threshold maximum_size` is reached. Default is `0.5`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`flush_capacity_ratio` | No                                 | Float  | The percentage of groups to be force-flushed when `aggregate_threshold maximum_size` is reached. Percentage is expressed from `0.0`--`1.0`. Default is `0.5`.
```

Use one of the following options:

- `in_memory`: Stores the record in memory.
- `local_file`: Flushes the record into a file on your local machine. This option uses your machine's temporary directory.
- `multipart`: Writes using the [S3 multipart upload](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/mpuoverview.html). Every 10 MB is written as a part.

## Object key configuration

Use the following options to define how object keys are constructed for objects stored in S3.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`path_prefix` | No | String | The S3 key prefix path to use for objects written to S3. Accepts date-time formatting and dynamic injection of values using [Data Prepper expressions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/). For example, you can use `/${/my_partition_key}/%{yyyy}/%{MM}/%{dd}/%{HH}/` to create hourly folders in S3 based on the `my_partition_key` value. The prefix path should end with `/`. By default, Data Prepper writes objects to the S3 bucket root.

## `codec`

The `codec` determines how the `s3` source formats data written to each S3 object.

### `avro` codec

> The `avro` codec writes an event as an [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) document. Because Avro requires a schema, you may either define the schema or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. It is recommended that you define the schema to accurately reflect your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `avro` codec writes an event as an [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) document. Because Avro requires a schema, you may either define the schema or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. Defining your own schema is recommended, as this will allow it to be tailored to your particular use case.
```

> The `avro` codec writes an event as an [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) document. Because Avro requires a schema, you may either define the schema or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. Defining your own schema is recommended, as this will allow it to be tailored to your particular use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `avro` codec writes an event as an [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) document. Because Avro requires a schema, you may either define the schema or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. Defining your own schema is recommended because this will allow it to be tailored to your particular use case.
```

When you provide your own Avro schema, that schema defines the final structure of your data. Any extra values in any incoming events that are not mapped in the Avro schema will not be included in the final destination. Data Prepper does not allow the use of `include_keys` or `exclude_keys` with a custom schema so as to avoid confusion between a custom Avro schema and the `include_keys` or `exclude_keys` sink configurations. 

> In cases where your data is uniform, you may be able to automatically generate a schema. Automatically generated schemas are based on the first event that the codec receives. The schema will only contain keys from this event, and all keys must be present in all events in order for the automatically generated schema to produce a working schema. Automatically generated schemas make all fields nullable. Use the `include_keys` and `exclude_keys` sink configurations to control which data is included in the automatically generated schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where your data is uniform, you may be able to automatically generate a schema. Automatically generated schemas are based on the first event that the codec receives. The schema will only contain keys from this event, and all keys must be present in all events in order to automatically generate a working schema. Automatically generated schemas make all fields nullable. Use the `include_keys` and `exclude_keys` sink configurations to control which data is included in the automatically generated schema.
```

> In cases where your data is uniform, you may be able to automatically generate a schema. Auto-generated schemas are based on the first event that the codec receives. The schema will only contain keys from this event, and you must have all keys present in all events in order for the auto-generated schema to produce a working schema. Auto-generated schemas make all fields nullable. Use the `include_keys` and `exclude_keys` sink configurations to control what data is included in the auto-generated schema.

Reviewer 2: Is "in order for the automatically generated schema to produce a working schema" redundant? Do we just mean "in order to automatically generate a working schema"?

Reviewer: Yes. Revised.

> It is recommended making Avro fields use a null [union](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions) to allow missing values; otherwise, ensure all required fields are present for each event. Use non-nullable fields only when certain of their presence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avro fields should use a null [union](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions), as this will allow missing values. Otherwise, all required fields must be present for each event. Use non-nullable fields only when you are certain they exist.
```

> Avro fields should use a null [union](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions), as this will allow missing values. Otherwise, all required fields must be present for each event. Use non-nullable fields only when you are certain they exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avro fields should use a null [union](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions) because this will allow missing values. Otherwise, all required fields must be present for each event. Use non-nullable fields only when you are certain they exist.
```

Use the following options to configure the codec.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`schema` | Yes | String | The Avro [schema declaration](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#schema-declaration). Not required if `auto_schema` is set to true.
`auto_schema` | No | Boolean | When set to `true`, automatically generates the Avro [schema declaration](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#schema-declaration) from the first event.
 
### `ndjson` codec

The `ndjson` codec writes each line as a JSON object. The `ndjson` codec does not take any configurations.

### `json` codec

The `json` codec writes events in a single large JSON file. Each event is written into an object within a JSON array.

Use the following options to configure the codec.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`key_name` | No | String | The name of the key for the JSON array. By default this is `events`.

### `parquet` codec

The `parquet` codec writes events into a Parquet file. When using the codec, set `buffer_type` to `in_memory`.

> The `parquet` codec writes data using the schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. It is recommended that you define your schema to accurately reflect your needs.

Reviewer 3: Can we say "We recommended" or "The Data Prepper maintainers recommend" instead of "It is recommended." The former seems non-committal as if we don't want to stand behind our recommendation.

> The `parquet` codec writes data using the schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. It is recommended that you define your schema to accurately reflect your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `parquet` codec writes data using the schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. Defining your own schema is recommended, as this will allow it to be tailored to your particular use case.
```

> The `parquet` codec writes data using the schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. Defining your own schema is recommended, as this will allow it to be tailored to your particular use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `parquet` codec writes data using the schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. Defining your own schema is recommended because this will allow it to be tailored to your particular use case.
```

> For details on the Avro schema and recommendations, refer to [Avro codec](#avro-codec).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the Avro schema, refer to [Avro codec](#avro-codec).
```

`maximum_size` | No | String | The maximum number of bytes to accumulate before writing an object to S3. Default is `50mb`.
`event_collect_timeout` | Yes | String | The maximum amount of time before Data Prepper writes an event to S3. The value should be either an ISO-8601 duration, such as `PT2M30S`, or a simple notation, such as `60s` or `1500ms`.

## Aggregate threshold configuration

Option | Required                           | Type   | Description
:--- |:-----------------------------------|:-------| :---

> `flush_capacity_ratio` | No                                 | Float  | The percentage of groups to be force flushed when the aggregate_threshold maximum_size is reached. Default is 0.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`flush_capacity_ratio` | No                                 | Float  | The percentage of groups to be force-flushed when `aggregate_threshold maximum_size` is reached. Default is `0.5`.
```

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `path_prefix` | No | String | The S3 key prefix path to use for objects written to S3. Accepts date-time formatting and dynamic injection of values using [Data Prepper expressions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/). For example, you can use `/${/my_partition_key}/%{yyyy}/%{MM}/%{dd}/%{HH}/` to create hourly folders in S3 based on the my_partition_key value. The prefix path should end with `/`. By default, Data Prepper writes objects to the root of the S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`path_prefix` | No | String | The S3 key prefix path to use for objects written to S3. Accepts date-time formatting and dynamic injection of values using [Data Prepper expressions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/). For example, you can use `/${/my_partition_key}/%{yyyy}/%{MM}/%{dd}/%{HH}/` to create hourly folders in S3 based on the `my_partition_key` value. The prefix path should end with `/`. By default, Data Prepper writes objects to the S3 bucket root.
```

## `codec`

The `codec` determines how the `s3` source formats data written to each S3 object.

### `avro` codec

The `avro` codec writes an event as an [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) document.

> Because Avro requires a schema, you may either define the schema yourself, or Data Prepper will automatically generate a schema. In general, you should define your own schema because it will most accurately reflect your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Avro requires a schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate a schema. It is recommended that you define your schema to accurately reflect your needs.
```

> We recommend that you make your Avro fields use a null [union](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions). Without the null union, each field must be present or the data will fail to write to the sink. If you can be certain that each each event has a given field, you can make it non-nullable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended making Avro fields use a null [union](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#unions) to allow missing values; otherwise, ensure all required fields are present for each event. Use non-nullable fields only when certain of their presence.
```

When you provide your own Avro schema, that schema defines the final structure of your data. Therefore, any extra values inside any incoming events that are not mapped in the Arvo schema will not be included in the final destination. To avoid confusion between a custom Arvo schema and the `include_keys` or `exclude_keys` sink configurations, Data Prepper does not allow the use of the `include_keys` or `exclude_keys` with a custom schema.

> In cases where your data is uniform, you may be able to automatically generate a schema. Automatically generated schemas are based on the first event received by the codec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where your data is uniform, you may be able to automatically generate a schema. Automatically generated schemas are based on the first event that the codec receives.
```

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`schema` | Yes | String | The Avro [schema declaration](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#schema-declaration). Not required if `auto_schema` is set to true.
`auto_schema` | No | Boolean | When set to `true`, automatically generates the Avro [schema declaration](https://avro.apache.org/docs/current/specification/#schema-declaration) from the first event.
 
### ndjson codec

The `ndjson` codec writes each line as a JSON object. The `ndjson` codec does not take any configurations.

### json codec

The `json` codec writes events in a single large JSON file. Each event is written into an object within a JSON array.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`key_name` | No | String | The name of the key for the JSON array. By default this is `events`.

### parquet codec

> The `parquet` codec writes events into a Parquet file. When using the Parquet codec, set the `buffer_type` to `in_memory`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `parquet` codec writes events into a Parquet file. When using the codec, set `buffer_type` to `in_memory`.
```

> The Parquet codec writes data using the  schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself, or Data Prepper will automatically generate a schema. However, we generally recommend that you define your own schema so that it can best meet your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `parquet` codec writes data using the schema. Because Parquet requires an Avro schema, you may either define the schema yourself or have Data Prepper automatically generate it. It is recommended that you define your schema to accurately reflect your needs.
```
